- [Instructor] One of the bigger improvements
from a testing perspective with Spring 5
is the ability to now execute our tests in parallel.
Now, this really is an important consideration,
especially if you have a lot of tests.
Very large test suites take a lot of time to run.
It makes sense.
Today, CI/CD pipelines must be quick
and really, that quickness is key because if you have
too many tests, it slows down your builds.
People are going to start complaining,
which means they start removing tests,
which of course, reduces the quality
and security of your application.
So really, to do this, we've got to get concurrency.
And this concurrent execution of tests can,
and I want to emphasize the word can,
reduce the total test time,
especially when dealing with very large suites of tests.
Now, in order to make this possible in Spring 5,
there's a couple tooling changes that had to happen.
The TestContextManager now leverages a thread-local version
of the TestContext.
So each thread has its own TestContext
and it's running, so that the tests on those threads
have access to that context
and they don't collide on top of each other.
We still need a runner, however, that can support
running tests in parallel.
And the good thing there is that Surefire works
out of the box
and that's what we're going to use in our example.
Now, there's just one other thing that I want to say
and that is that JUnit 5, at the time of this recording,
is not set up for parallel execution.
We really need to get Jupiter 5.3 out and at that point,
parallel execution is only going to be experimental.
So maybe by 5.4, 5.5, it'll be actually prime time,
ready to go, no holds barred.
But I want you to think about this aspect for just a moment.
When you're writing really large test suites,
parameterized tests run in parallel.
That will be amazing from a time perspective,
especially when looking at large arrays of boundary tests
that we can very easily run
through a parameterized test framework.
So let's jump into code and see how to turn this on.
So over here in our IDE,
we're going to go ahead and open up our application.
The first place that we're going to go
is we're going to go to the pom.
And in our pom, we're going to make a couple changes.
The first thing that I want to do
is actually remove the JSON-B.
We don't need it anymore
and I don't want to have it get in the way.
So we're going to come down here into the build section
and we're going to add a new plugin.
And technically, we're not adding a plugin.
We're actually just configuring an existing plugin.
The plugin that we're going to configure
is Maven Surefire.
With the Maven Surefire plugin,
I'm going to pass in a configuration.
And the configuration that we're going to pass it
is parallel and we're going to set that equal to method.
Now, what this says is that you can parallelized the tests
at the method level.
You have many options here and I encourage you
to take a look at this documentation
to see which option will work best for your situation.
We're also going to give it a little bit of leeway here
and we're going to allow it to use unlimited threads.
Now, with all that said and done,
we're ready to actually go implement a test.
So let's go to src, test, java,
and we'll go ahead and reuse our existing application test.
So the first thing that we're going to do here
is we're going to add an annotation
to @AutoConfigureMockMvc.
And we'll go ahead and get rid of this ContextLoads test.
Doesn't really do a lot after we've actually got
a real test working.
We're going to add Autowired in now, an instance
of MockMvc.
Let me shrink this window down,
so we've got a little bit more room.
Now, MockMvc is a great tool
when you're calling into web APIs or websites.
And I highly encourage you to study up on it
if you've never used it before.
We're going to create a new test.
Just like always, so public void,
addPresident, and we'll let this throw an exception.
Now, what might be kind of fun for your example
is to copy this test a whole bunch of times
and run this through your test runner.
But we're going to run this in the IDE
and really, we don't have a good benchmark
'cause we're not going to write thousands of tests
to be able to show the parallel execution.
But I am going to show you how a test would run
in a parallel thread.
So within this, we'll go ahead and create our test.
And I'm going to do a little bit of JSON here in a string,
so we're going to pass in an id with a value of one
and then we will set firstName
equal George.
Remember to escape those quotes
'cause you need them in the JSON payload.
And then we are going to do lastName.
It's a little hard to think about
what you're actually typing here.
So take your time and make sure you get all of this right
or else you're going to be frustrated
when things aren't working the way you expect.
And remember to close that out.
So that's our JSON payload that we're going to pass
to our post command.
And in order to do that, we'll execute on MockMvc
the perform action.
And to the perform action, we will send a post
and we are going to post to /presidents
and we will set our content
equal to our president JSON string.
Go ahead and import that in,
so that I get some auto-complete here.
And now, we're going to set our content type
equal to MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON
and we'll go ahead and set UTF8.
That should be fun.
And now, we will add
andExpect.
And we will simply ask it to tell us that it is
an OK status.
Do our final imports here.
Make that a method call.
Clean that one up.
Excellent, so now, I can actually just run my test.
Now, I'm going to run this with the IDE
just to show that the test runs
and that Surefire didn't break
because a Maven compilation is happening in the background.
However, in the real world, we're not going to see this
with the IDE, so we're actually going to need to run this
through a build machine like Jenkins.
And again, we'd have to have lots of tests
to feel the benefit of this.
But what you would find is that as you are adding
more and more tests, you would get some reduction in time
by running them in parallel
and that is again, a big deal
when you're building large systems.
So our test ran, everything is fine, good to go.